---
layout: post
title:  "Predicting ... the past?"
date:   2021-05-31 16:00:00
author: J. Javier Gálvez-Gamboa
categories: Phil
cover:  "/assets/imgs/photo-1508802493048-bf55245a557b.jpeg"
lang: en
ref: hindcast
---

"If you had not made that mistake, would not have scored another run" is a claim or comment that baseball players and observers will probably have said or heard at some point in time.

Have you ever judged by the result? Surely yes and you have even judged yourself. 

Judging only by the result is, from one point of view, wrong. And it is from this perspective that we will speak in more detail.

In the situation "If you had not made that mistake, would not have scored another run", two failures occur.

The first one is that we are evaluating the severity of the error based on the result itself. A highly probable event may not happen. Suppose we have a six-sided die. In 5 of the 6 faces there are ones and in only one face there is a five. Which number would you bet on, one or five? If you bet on 1 and the result of rolling the dice is a 5, did you make a good decision or a bad decision? I would think it was a good one. Finish analyzing the other possibilities and you may come to the conclusion that judging by the result is wrong. The objective of betting in the case of the dice is not to win, it is to make a good decision. Do you agree? Because winning or losing is not in our control, winning is not the goal. Will the same apply to besibol and life itself? Write it in the comments.

Returning to the baseball example, the error is an error regardless of whether it had a positive or negative impact on the score of the game. Even when it was claimed that the mistake cost the team the game, the reality is, there is no way to know.

Although personally I always play to win, I seek to be aware that I do not control the result, only my actions and decisions. That even doing things well, things might not turn out as expected. Without the aim of discouraging, although the phrase "do your best and you will be able to achieve whatever you want" sounds very nice, I do not consider it entirely true. However, this does not prevent you from doing your best because losing a game played intensely, may take away the victory, but not the glory.

The second one is that we are assuming that, if the mistake had not been made, the run would not have scored. As if the events leading to an outcome were well defined. One way of looking at this point is to ask ourselves, Are we capable of predicting the past? I would say, it is impossible. Because the race could enter with or without error. There is no way of knowing. There is a phrase from a Yankees announcer that summarizes very well what I want to convey and I love it: "The fallacy of the predetermined result".

A real example, which takes being judged by the outcome to the extreme, is the Bartman incident. The Chicago Cubs were going through a world series championship drought of more than 90 years. They were one game away from winning the national league championship (the lead up to the world series), game 6 of the series. Winning 3-0 in the 8th inning, a flies was hit out to left field very close to the stands. The outfielder tries to make the catch but several fans are looking to catch the ball as well. The unfortunate Steve Bartman is the one who deflects the ball, depriving the player of the opportunity to make the out. After that incident, the opposing team scores 8 runs, so the cubs end up losing the game. The cubs had another chance to win the championship in a subsequent game, but they lost it too.

Who do you think was blamed for everything? The Cubs fans judged Steve so harshly for causing the Cubs to lose Game 6, and also Game 7, as if it were a domino effect.  

Several absurd things happened around this story, such as that the ball was burned and that no one sat in the seat that Bartan used for a long time. You can investigate more about this incident, as books have been written and documentaries have been filmed about it, but what I would like to highlight is that there is not much difference with smaller events that happen in baseball and life. 

In short, the suggestion is, the next time you judge or criticize, try to remove the result from the equation and above all, keep enjoying the game.

<br/> 
The best for you, baseball player!
