---
layout: post
title:  "Practice"
date:   2021-08-07 16:00:00
author: J. Javier Gálvez-Gamboa
categories: Phil
cover:  "/assets/imgs/photo-1508344928928-7165b67de128.jpeg"
lang: en
ref: hit
---

Jack Robinson, who would become the first African American to play major league baseball, having hit a home run, teammate George "Shotgun" Shuba waited for him at home plate to shake his hand to congratulate him. This event is known as ["the handshake of the century"](https://dodgers.mlblogs.com/a-handshake-for-the-century-4a44bbfce295), which was frozen in the time in a wonderful photograph taken at the precise moment. It would be part of the first events that would end up breaking the racial barrier of major league baseball.  

Shuba is known to have been a great friend of Jackie, but he was also a hitter of his time with peculiar fame.

His nickname "The shotgun" had earned it by hitting some powerful lines all over the field, **with a swing** so compact and so fluid **that it seemed as natural as a smile**.

I got this description from a book called "Boys of Summer" written by Roger Kahn.

In a book he narrates that the same writer, Khan, tells Shuba:

"I would have given anything to have had your natural swing".

To which Shuba replies: "You could have".

You could imagine Khan's surprised face.

Shuba, explain your method. He poked holes in a wooden bat, filling it with 10 pounds of lead. Later, he tied a rope with a couple of knots, simulating a ball.

Shuba went to the file and pulled out a chart, marked with Xs. "In the winters, for fifteen years after loading potatoes or anything else, even when I was in the majors, I'd swing at the clump six hundred times. Every night, and after sixty I'd make an X. Ten Xs and I has my six hundred swings. Then I could go to bed."

"You call that natural? I swung a 44-ounce bat 600 times a night, 4200 times a week, 47200 swings every winter. Wrist. The fast ball's by you. You gotta wrist it out. Forty-seven thousand two hundred times".

Why this story?

At the time of writing this article, the Tokyo 2020 Olympics are happening. We can see different athletes who seem to have natural talent and probably some do. However, most of them look natural due to practice.

George Shuba had no talent, he developed a skill.

With this story I want to tell you that, do not close yourself to the fact that you have no talent. Skill is something that can be learned and the way to acquire a skill is with practice.

Do your 10x today, then do them tomorrow too ... that's how you develops ~~a talent~~ a skill as natural as a smile 😃

