---
layout: post
title:  "I am leyend"
date:   2021-09-20 16:00:00
author: J. Javier Gálvez-Gamboa
categories: Phil
cover:  "/assets/imgs/ben-hershey-Ql2n3JsUpww-unsplash.jpg"
lang: en
ref: hit
---

In the history of baseball, there have been great figures who have become legends. It is common in childhood, playing baseball, to say that we are one of those figures. You hallucinate pointing at the fence as Babe Ruth did. You're pitching and you feel like Mariano Rivera. Or you're hitting and want to swing Ken Griffey Jr style.

It is the stars of the past that have inspired the stars of the present and it is the latter the inspiration of future generations.

However, the stars are unique. has not seen another swing of power and elegance like Ken Griffey Jr. There was also no Cutter with the domain that Mariano Rivera threw.

While certainly there are several reasons why legends are not repeated, one that I can think of that influences most is that **details can not be explained** (if you have in mind other reasons, enriches this analysis in the comments).

There are excellent coaches, some may even be the same legends. Even so, they are unable to explain all the details of how a certain position is played or how to make a good swing in the style of Ken Griffey Jr., even if it is Junior himself who explains it to you. And it's not that he doesn't want to explain how he does the swing, it's that he doesn't even know exactly how he does it. He can teach you many things, give you tips, even those who teach will believe they have taught you everything and, even then, you will never be like him.

It's kind of like cooking. Even if you follow the recipe, you may not give it the same special touch as the Chef who wrote the recipe.

Mariano Rivera reveals his "secret" [in this video](https://www.instagram.com/p/CAgrf1JA2h9/?utm_source=ig_embed&ig_rid=372a55df-d573-49dc-9700-1d6d4c2c025b). Even after watching the video, you may not be able to know how to throw the Cutter, because there is something that it will not explain to you. He won't explain it to you, not because he doesn't want to, it's that even he doesn't know what it is. And as he well says in his video, even if you managed to make that pitch, you will be the number two, he will always be number one. It seems like a joke, but no, it is something very close to reality. There cannot be another Mariano Rivera and it is not precisely that you, even dominating the Cutter, are better or worse than him, it is that you are another person.

We will never be like other people. So, in our own way, the fair comparison is with ourselves from yesterday.

Improve our hitting and fielding technique through training. Read, write or learn another language. Get angry less, laugh more ... whatever you think makes you better than yesterday. It is a guide that can lead you to reach your true potential.

Forge your own legend, on and off the field.

Good luck player!