---
layout: post
title:  "The past does not define the future"
date:   2021-03-30 16:00:00
author: J. Javier Gálvez-Gamboa
categories: Phil
cover:  "/assets/imgs/Melissa_Mayeux-1040x572.jpg"
lang: en
ref: mlb-girl
---

Talking about baseball is also talking about statistics. There are amateurs, commentators, and professionals who gobble up statistics and never seem to satisfy their hunger for numbers. Many rely on sabermetrics primarily to predict the future.

Sabermetry is the objective analysis of baseball using primarily probability and statistics.

A simple statistic could be the batting average. Some might consider a player with an average above 0.400, someone who will continue to hit in the next few games. Therefore, a manager could rank him first in the batting order. Or, a fan or commentator could criticize the manager for benching that player and losing the game.

I know this example is very *naïve*, because we leave out many variables that could influence whether that batter will continue to be a good batter in the present-future game. It could be that that player was left on the bench because he was sick with the flu that day. Or that he is hitting 400 but has only had 10 at-bats. Whatever you want to include in the equation. However, I prefer to keep it that simple to illustrate the idea.

A baseball player from the time of Babe Ruth, whose name I cannot remember, uttered a phrase that goes something like this:

"Statistics are like bikini girls, they teach a lot, but not everything"

It is the nature of any model in the uncertain world we live in, in the same world in which we also play baseball. Statistical models are no exception. That is why there are people who argue that baseball should be played not only with sabarmetry. There is a part that must be played as it feels to be played, that is, with a human model.

However, I consider that there is a point where the statistical model and human model and in general all predictive models fail. At that point, it could be called imagination or power of thought. That point where you say, why not?

> Our past experience, desirable in some aspects of our lives, limits us to thinking only about the known, distancing ourselves from the possibility of achieving the impossible.

The main image of this article is that of Melissa Mayeux. A female baseball player who was a prospect to play the big leagues. Although there have been several cases, including this one in playing professional baseball, today we still don't have a woman playing baseball in MLB.

Among the comments that I have read about Melissa's case, several of them refer to the fact that it is impossible for a woman to play the big leagues. Some comments with arguments and many others, without giving further explanation, say that this will never happen. Those opinions that have certain bases of why a woman will never play in the big tent, are based on the past, on their experience.

In some video I heard Sadhguru say something like: just because whenever you get up from the chair where you are, whether it is to walk, it does not prevent that the next time you do it, it is to fly ”.

Although my background is in engineering and I work around data science, I dare to express that there is a point where probabilities do not count and that point is defined by you and nobody else. Don't stop dreaming and working to achieve it. Don't let any negative comments stop you from trying to play the big leagues.

Consider everything they tell you, including what you read in this article, but don't take it religiously. Analyze the content and generate your conclusions. Add or subtract what you think is most appropriate.

In this world, those who believe they can achieve more than those who know they can. I can assure you.

Best wishes to you, baseball player.

<br/>
As Cantinflas said, the difficult I do immediately, the impossible It take me a little longer 😜
