---
layout: post
title:  "The hit of yesterday's game"
date:   2021-06-30 16:00:00
author: J. Javier Gálvez-Gamboa
categories: Phil
cover:  "/assets/imgs/baseball-2489791_960_720.jpg"
lang: en
ref: hit
---

It is common within the baseball community to talk about past games, especially about feats performed. It becomes entertaining and living an opportunity to listen and count the anecdotes in the field.

Although longing for the past brings some benefits, at other times it limits us to live in the present moment and above all to keep moving forward.

In my teens, on a certain occasion when I finished ~~ telling ~~ showing off the good things I had done in the past, a friend let me know a phrase that stuck with me:

> The hit from yesterday's game is not useful for today's game.

While the hit increases our batting average, it has no impact on the outcome of today's game. While it is good to take inspiration from our own achievements, we must prevent our success from sinking us.

One of the possible causes that success leads to failure is when we come to "believe" that we have already achieved a lot and start to feel overconfident, we trust ourselves, and then we no longer put the same effort. And I say "believe" because it could have been a hit, a home run, or a grand slam and for some, it will be a lot, for others are too little. So, let's take our achievements as a metric that we are improving.

The other side of the coin could be summed up in this phrase that I just made up:

> The mistake you made in yesterday's game does not affect today's game.

Arriving crestfallen and unsure of the next game because you made a mistake yesterday is a double mistake. Let's not let our failures in the past sink us into the present and limit our future. Better you have to take them to analyze what you did wrong, learn, and go to do things right in the game of now.

With all this, I wanted to remind you that each game is a new game, just as each day of your life is a new day.

<br/> 
Keep Moving Forward!
